Hi, I'm Jeri Mason.
I'm a software engineer
on the HomePod team,
and I'm going to walk you through
bringing your media service into
the home with SiriKit Media Intents,
now powered by cloud extensions.
Let's start with everything
you need to start developing.
First,
we'll cover some important prerequisites
for developing a service effectively.
How to configure a test home.
How to set up your HomePod for testing.
How to set up your iOS
device for development.
And finally,
adopting the media setup framework
in your app for onboarding
your service into a home.
Once you've taken these steps,
you're well on your way to
creating an awesome playback
experience on HomePod for the
people who love your content.
Let's dive into the prerequisites.
To support SiriKit Media Intense
on HomePod,
your service must already support
Media Intense in your iOS app.
You'll need to apply for the
program on developer.apple.com/siri.
After you apply, you'll receive more
details about accessing the
Cloud Extension API specification,
which your service must implement.
Then you can register your service
with us to get entitlements and
profiles to begin development.
And finally,
before a HomePod will be able
to reach out to your service
via the Cloud Extension APIs,
you must implement an OAuth flow
and a configuration web service
defined in our specification.
Let's talk more about registration.
To register your service,
you'll need to provide your service name,
a public sign-in key that you create
to verify the service on devices,
a static URL to retrieve an icon for your
service from iOS devices in the home,
and a list of bundle IDs of apps
which are using the service.
This information will be used to create
a development profile you can install
on your test and development devices.
Only devices with a profile will
be able to test your service.
It should come as no surprise,
since the cloud extension
APIs use web technology,
we've adopted authentication
using OAuth 2.0 endpoint.
But since your app takes the
role of a trusted client,
a service that implements client
credentials flow is required.
A unique client ID and client
secret is required for each service
account that is added to a home.
Even though it's uncommon for this flow,
the issuing of renewal tokens is
recommended so as to avoid a common
reuse of these credentials provided
directly to the OAuth service.
This is because without
a renewal token flow,
the client ID and client
secret could be long-lived.
As long as someone is using
your service from a home,
either a renewal token or the original
authentication must be supported.
Your iOS app must be able to supply
these credentials by requesting
them from your service and providing
them to iOS Media Setup APIs.
HomePods reach out to your
service to resolve intents.
On iOS, the details of what intents you
support are part of your app's bundle.
In Cloud extension,
you must implement one or more
configuration resource endpoints,
which identify supported endpoints
and what URLs you use to reach them.
There's a lot of flexibility here.
You can have multiple static
URLs or implement an endpoint
that creates them dynamically,
all of which is useful for development
in staging test configurations.
Your endpoint can even check a
request authorization header,
identifying the account
retrieving the configuration.
The body of the configuration is
encoded using JavaScript object
signing and encryption standards,
and it must be properly signed
for the device to accept it.
However you serve the resource,
it must provide standard HTTP cache
control headers so that clients
do not have to retrieve it often.
Every time your app adds
your service to a home,
it provides the URL for this resource,
as well as the client credentials.
But these prerequisites met,
let's talk about configuring a test home.
While you're developing
and testing your service,
having a dedicated test home in the
Apple Home app is strongly recommended.
That way,
you won't affect any HomeKit homes
you may use personally,
and you only have to manage
the configuration of the
devices in your test home.
You'll also want to have
multiple test iCloud accounts,
so you can test your service with
different accounts in the same home.
And naturally,
you want to make sure that you're
using the same accounts on the
HomePod and your iOS test devices.
Creating a new home in
the Home app is easy.
First, tap Home Settings, add a home,
type in the name of the home.
Now you can add people who
are your other test users.
Okay, now that you've got
your test home set up,
you'll need to add a HomePod to
it and then set it up.
You'll usually want to install
the latest tvOS developer
beta release on your HomePod,
or a release Apple currently
advises for development.
It's important to note that you cannot
use a regular tvOS release until
you're ready to submit your app.
Until then,
you'll also need to install a development
profile provided by Apple for your
service in the home app on iOS.
Be sure to repeat this process for each
device you plan to test in your home.
When you update to a new version of tvOS,
you may have to reinstall the profile.
To install a profile on a HomePod,
first make sure your test home
is selected in the Home app.
Open the profile on an iOS device.
Select HomePod as the
device type to install.
Tap "Install" Enter your passcode
Consent to the agreements
Tap "Install" to complete installation
You can then choose which HomePod in
your test home to install the profile to.
That's it.
You'll need to set up your iOS devices
for testing and development as well.
You'll need to be using a
developer beta on your iOS device.
Usually you want the version that was
released at the same time as tvOS,
but check with Apple for the
latest recommended version.
Like the HomePod, you'll need to install
your developer profile.
Tap on the mobile config bundle in
an email or iMessage attachment.
Choose to install it on your iOS device
and follow the typical flow for accepting
and installing profiles in Settings.
It's a good idea to check
that your iOS device and your
HomePod devices are running the
expected releases at this point.
You can repeat the setup for
any test devices you may need.
They can be iPhone or iPad devices.
With your devices configured,
you can now adopt the Media Setup
Framework in your app.
This is what ultimately will
allow people to set up your
service for use in their home.
To use Media Setup,
you'll need to implement
functionality in your app to
retrieve or create OAuth material,
choose a configuration
resource URL appropriate for
the account being onboarded,
and then you'll have to add the
entitlement you received after
registering your service with Apple.
Otherwise,
you won't be able to use the framework.
Make sure to add a prominent discoverable
onboarding presentation context
in your app to trigger the account
installation flow using MS Setup Session.
People will be guided through
the home account setup process.
The setup process will use your OAuth
service to retrieve API tokens and
verify your configuration resource
URL is properly signed and parsable.
So all the prerequisites I mentioned
earlier must be met before a
successful setup will complete.
You can get more details
at developer.apple.com.
Now that your development and
test environments are ready,
a HomePod in your test panel
can reach out to your service.
Let's go over the process.
The system architecture of
handling intents in the cloud.
On iPhones, iPads, or Apple TV,
when you ask Siri to play
media in your iOS app,
you either handle intents directly or
via an extension in your app bundle.
Typically, when someone asks Siri to
play content from your app,
Siri processes this request,
identifies your app bundle
as the target of the intent,
and loads your app extension,
which implements the intent resolution.
Your extension can communicate
with your services,
and the handling of the intent
will trigger launching of
your app to begin playback,
or just signal it to handle changes.
With cloud extension,
the process of resolving those intents
moves from your extension implementation
on device to an API on your service,
as the HomePod directly reaches
out to your cloud extension
intent endpoints instead.
The cloud extension API is
a web API specification
designed for intent handling.
It uses open API schemas to
define objects that closely
follow the SiriKit interface.
It uses a lot of the same code that
you use to create content APIs you're
already familiar with on iOS.
The configuration URLs I discussed
as we were getting started are
also part of this specification,
and their content is defined in it.
Each SiriKit media intent type has
a protocol endpoint configuration,
and we can reach out to different URLs as
necessary for your implementation.
The protocols supported are play media,
add media, and update media affinity.
You may notice the search protocols
are not the same as the previous ones.
They are the same as the previous ones.
The search protocol is
not provided in HomePod,
because there's no context to
display the results on HomePod,
unlike on iOS devices.
Let's look at what happens when
I tell Siri to play content.
When I tell Siri,
play strange by Celeste,
this triggers the play
media intent handling flow.
When I tell Siri,
play strange by Celeste,
this triggers the play
media intent handling flow.
The HomePod starts resolving
a Play Media Intent with
a Media Search object.
It's serialized in JSON and
sent to your service.
Once you match the Media Search to
something appropriate in your catalog,
you'll create a response object.
The Media Item has an identifier, type,
and additional metadata that Siri may use
to formulate dialogue to tell the user,
"Now playing 'Strange' by
Celeste." Additionally,
this protocol has a handle method
that is called after resolving
other fields on the intent.
If the fields on the intent
are already acceptable,
there's no reason to delay
returning the final handle method,
so include it in your response
to the initial request.
Not doing so causes extra round trips
to your service unnecessarily and
slows down the intent response time.
Inside a handle response,
you can include an object called
"UserActivity," which contains a
persistent identifier and user info that
will be returned to your service when
the HomePod starts playing your content.
Your service replies with these
results and may begin to formulate a
queue of content to play based on the
request as the HomePod processes these
results and starts a playback session.
Now,
when media is playing from your service,
let's consider what
happens when I tell Siri,
"Add this to my library." The add
media intent handling flow starts
with resolving media items as before,
except now that Siri knows what's
currently playing from your service,
an identifier for the currently
playing content is also part
of the media search parameters.
As before,
your service must identify the content
playing and add it to the library of
the count used to make the request.
You'll then create an object to represent
the resolved media item and bundle
together the handle method result that
indicates this operation was successful.
Then you'll return that
response to the HomePod,
where Siri will confirm the result.
And finally,
when I tell Siri I like this,
the update media affinity intent
handling starts again with
resolving media items as before,
and your service will
identify the content,
create a resolve media item result,
register this affinity against
the taste profile the account
used to authenticate the request,
and like the previous examples,
include the handle method result.
These context-specific requests will
only include a content identifier if
your service is the service playing on
the HomePod when the request is made.
Also,
don't forget that listeners can just say
that they want to add something that's
not currently playing to their library.
In this case,
you'll be provided with media
names and artist names to resolve.
This is a less common use case, though.
Let's see a basic play media request and
response as it looks in the protocol,
as JSON.
If I ask my HomePod the most basic
request to play music on your service,
every request to the intent
endpoints on your service will
provide a session description
before the first item to resolve.
Most objects in the specification
include the Cloud extension version
number of the object being presented.
Your service should support older
versions of these objects when possible.
Newer versions also should
be backward compatible up to
a new major version number.
The intent resolution
session has an identifier,
which is also carried in a
header on HTTPS requests.
It will remain the same during
resolution of the intent interaction,
and if multiple requests are
made to resolve this intent,
this identifier will be
consistent between them.
Two timestamps are provided:
the UTC time when the request
was prepared and a deadline time,
after which the client
will time out the request.
If the deadline is missed,
Siri will explain the service
cannot resolve the intent.
Providing a timely response is important.
Timeouts happen after 10 seconds.
So consider how you can break up
the work of returning intent results
and preparing content for playback,
so that your service can take
advantage of the time between
requests from the HomePod.
These constraints and player
context objects will be
discussed in more depth later.
They provide important information
about what's happening on the
HomePod when the request was made.
Most requests start with a
resolveMediaItems method on the protocol.
The most important part of this
request is in the parameter,
an intent object.
This is a playMedia intent,
and all playMedia intent objects have
a media search that defines attributes
of media parsed by Siri from speech.
Other parameters of the intent include
information about whether I asked to
play the content shuffled or repeating,
or to resume playing the content,
or whether I said to play something
next or later instead of now.
This object should appear
familiar to you if you've already
handled playMediaIntents on iOS.
The response you return from this
request should look familiar too,
but there are a few new twists.
Inside an array of results,
you provide the method name,
a result object,
in this case a resolutionResult
array with one item,
the resolutionResult class
appropriate for this method,
which is in this case a success property,
and as you can see, this resolveMediaItem
represents your favorites,
a station based on my taste profile.
Here is something new
for cloud extension.
Each method you process should return
a metrics object that describes
how long in seconds it took for
your service to provide results.
Apple may use this data in aggregate
to roughly determine the experience of
listeners and better evaluate when delays
are caused by network connectivity.
You can see the next result item
is peeking around the break here:
the handle method for this protocol.
The result of a handle
method is a response object
appropriate for that intent,
which has a status code and then a
description of a user activity object.
Think of user activities as a memento
representing the intent result.
For Play Media Inteint results,
the user activity is used when starting
or modifying playback of your content.
Whereas on iOS devices,
the user activity object is made
available to your app when it's launched.
On HomePod,
your service defines the listening
experience with another cloud
extension API for MediaCube playback.
Up to this point,
intent handling should have been
super familiar if you've implemented
SiriKit Media Inteints on iOS previously.
Applying media from your cloud service is
the driving feature of cloud extension,
and in this part,
I'll provide you the concepts
and specifics to implement
media queues in the cloud.
Let's review again what happens
when a person asks Siri to
play media on a HomePod.
The request is processed by Siri,
and our Cloud Media Service Extension has
chosen to handle it on
behalf of your service.
The HomePod uses the
Cloud Extension APIs implemented by
your service to resolve an intent.
Once we've resolved the intent,
a Cloud Media Player component will
contact your service's queue endpoints.
And it's those queue endpoints which
determine what content to play.
In most services,
a content distribution service often
provides the actual audio files to play.
You might notice that there
are two HomePods depicted here.
In certain situations,
the HomePod that resolves the
intent may not be the same
HomePod that is playing your content.
If a family has several HomePods,
the HomePod closest to someone
in the living room might
respond to their request,
even if your service had already
been playing to multiple locations
in the house and that session
had started in the kitchen.
Let's see how your service
provides content for your cues.
I'm going to walk you through some
high-level concepts of media cues,
including various idioms and use cases
for different listening experiences.
And then dive into details of
managing cues and their lifetime.
And finally,
I'll explain how your service
defines playback controls on HomePod.
Okay, let's explore what it means to
provide a cue from your service.
All listening experiences supported
by Cloud Extension are defined by
playing a cue of content items.
Cues are created or modified
by submitting user activity
objects resulting from intent
resolution to your service.
Your service returns a cue
of content items all at once
or more likely in segments.
Let's look at some use cases and
how to conceptualize them as a cue.
Internet radio content often
starts with a promotion track,
then many songs,
quite often an advertisement, more songs,
and then it continues indefinitely
until a listener stops playback.
On-demand music requests can
resolve to a single album or other
collection like a playlist and
be constrained to a finite cue.
And live streaming content will
often have a single content item
which forms a minimal cue response
that has one piece of content
referencing the live stream source.
Content items in a queue can be
described with an identifier,
a URL, and various descriptive attributes
like the name of the content,
the artist, and so on.
Content selection can take any number
of algorithmic forms in your service,
from a rigid album track order to
a completely dynamic selection.
Queues are intended to
support all these use cases.
Now let's talk about the various ways
you can represent your sequence of
content items in a queue idiomatically.
The idioms I'll be describing are
variations on using a cue broken
into segments for different purposes.
So here we have our content
conceptually realized over time,
described by objects.
Say these four pieces of content are
the complete listening experience
you want to represent as the
result of an intent resolution.
You can package them into a cue object,
which has its own identifier and a
simple array of all these content items.
That's a pretty basic cue object.
This is the static content idiom,
where a cue contains a finite,
non-changing list of content.
It may fit into one cue segment,
or it might not, but conceptually,
it is a rigid list of content
items that can be played in order.
Use cases for this idiom include
the on-demand music request
for an album or a playlist,
or the live stream use case where the
cue is a simple wrapper for one piece
of content that streams indefinitely.
Your service can have
more complicated queues,
however.
Queues can be split into segments,
and they internally link to
the next content and previous
content items via URL references.
The HomePod will retrieve these
segments as your service defines them,
and any particular segment can be
dynamically generated and return
different results as the listening
session moves to the new segment,
either by transitioning naturally
or by skipping forward or backwards
through your content items.
This particular example might
fit a use case where a service
provides an advertisement inside
a set of fixed content segments,
and each time the player
encounters queue segment B,
a different advertisement might play.
This means your service queue
content is retrieved dynamically,
so your service will experience
more requests for each queue
segment as it is entered.
Your service may want to have
the most discrete control over
content and playback options.
And in the fully dynamic idiom,
every cue segment contains one
content item and a new content for
the cue can be retrieved dynamically
as the listener proceeds through it.
This is a popular idiom for internet
radio use cases because the cue is
typically of indefinite size and
also because the cue content itself
is a function of listening behavior.
Skipping tracks and providing
content affinity through Siri Intents
may change the taste profile
associated with the account,
and therefore upcoming content
items may be selected differently.
Naturally, this is also the idiom that
represents the most request
processing on your service.
Since these idioms are different ways
of using the same cue architecture,
your service can provide cues using
any combination of these idioms,
and you can even choose alternate
idioms to implement for a
particular kind of request.
They're useful for considering
trade-offs in complexity and capability.
Enough theory.
Let's talk about how your service
creates and manages these cues.
When a Play Media Intent Handling request
returns from your intent endpoint,
your service should start creating
your representation of a cue,
because shortly afterward,
a request on your cue Play Media Endpoint
will be made to retrieve the
initial or complete cue segment.
Each segment can link to a next and
previous segment as your service desires,
providing a set of content that is
potentially endless or circular.
Usually, a newly retrieved cue starts
playing from the first content item.
To support resuming playback
from a prior session,
a Play Pointer object can be
provided in the initial cue segment,
and playback begins from
the content item indicated,
at a time offset you provide.
To support smooth, gapless playback,
as the listening point is near the end of
the last content item in the cue segment,
the next segment will be
retrieved and appended at a
configurable pre-roll interval.
[Transcript missing]
I hope you have a good grasp of the
rich set of queue management tools your
service can use to provide flexible and
timely content retrieval and updates.
Finally, in this section,
I'll expand on controlling
playback and defining how listeners
interact with your service.
Not every kind of cue is the same,
and not all content in a
cue can be treated the same.
For example, the internet radio use case
typically supports only
forward motion through the cue.
Additionally,
when an advertisement is playing,
you may not want to support
skipping that content at all.
Skipping ahead in radio station cues
may be limited by many variables.
Premium subscriptions, freemium models,
other more esoteric limitations.
The fully dynamic idiom is often the
only way to support these requirements.
Moving between different content in
a cue may be limited arbitrarily.
Let's talk about how you
define this interaction.
Cloud extension Q APIs let
your service define interaction
with PlayMedia Control objects
you provide in the Q object.
Each PlayMedia Control object can
choose a predefined scheme which
supports several common use cases.
This set of defined interactions
can be specified on each content
item with a control attribute.
Let's look at an example control
definition which might be appropriate
for an on-demand service with
advertisements interspersed with songs.
You include these definitions inside a
controls attribute for every cue object.
In this example,
there are two definitions:
the required "default" definition,
which is used when any content
item does not specify a control,
and an "add" definition,
that is specified on all content
items that are advertisements.
All control definitions
have a prototype scheme.
By default,
the content items in the cue are
going to be the on-demand scheme,
and for the add content,
the advertisement scheme.
The scheme modifies the
Siri dialog when a user asks to
move to the next content item.
Siri may then reply that skipping
advertisements is not permitted.
The scheme also defaults all
navigation commands to be disabled,
though you can selectively
enable them again.
An example of enabling
commands is also provided here,
where the dislike and
like track commands,
normally disabled by default,
are being enabled for
your on-demand content.
You can see how with a small
set of control definitions
linked to items in your cue,
you can substantially customize
interactions with your content.
Finally, the control definitions also
allow specifying options
for user activity reporting,
which is how your service
receives optional command events,
navigation information, and play status,
and play status of your content.
These are all topics
I'm about to cover next.
So far,
we've seen how a HomePod reaches out
to your service to resolve intents
and manage a queue of content to play.
Now, I'll talk about how your service is
made aware of playback events and
can contextualize requests over time,
starting with how listening activity
can be reported to your service,
how playback context is
provided when already playing
any queue from your service,
and finally,
how your service must respect
certain playback constraints.
So let's start with reporting.
Listener activity is reported using
the Media Queue Update Activity
Endpoint in the Cloud Extension API.
This endpoint is technically optional,
but most services implement it
to get status reports from the
HomePod as people listen to content.
Your service receives reports
for transitions and media
control events such as skips,
pausing, continuing playback,
and scrubbing in a track.
Your queue content can be
affected by these reports,
especially if you've implemented a
partially or fully dynamic queue idiom.
Your service can even return new
queue segments as a response.
Since update activity requests
are made asynchronously from
content retrieval for your queue,
returning a new queue on the report
of a track skip may not present
your queue content cleanly and might
fight the normal transition logic.
Some audible jump in
playback would likely occur.
Use queue responses from reporting
only to completely change the
playback or insert new content.
Use content URL templating
to get more context of why a
queue segment was retrieved.
Let's look at an example request
made to the update activity endpoint.
In this example,
I asked Siri to skip to the next track.
These simple interactions are
not intents but media controls.
In JSON, the report looks like this.
As you can see,
the type of report being made is
tagged as a "Skip Next." The full
set of reporting types is defined
in the specification and includes
natural transitions between tracks,
scrubbing within a track,
and when a new queue
replaces the existing queue.
The now playing context is provided,
including the activity, queue,
and content identifiers,
and an offset into the content
that has currently been played.
For transitions, a previously playing
context is also provided.
It represents the identifiers
associated with the last content
being played and the offset inside the
content when playback transitioned.
You might use this to update
your listener's taste profile
if they skipped quickly.
But in this case, I listened to a good
portion of that song,
as you can tell in the
offset in millis value.
So your service may assume
I probably liked it.
At least enough not to
lower its relative rating.
And like other endpoints
in the queue API,
the user activity object
is presented in full,
in case the user info data is useful
for your service to recover state
and quickly process this information.
There are more advanced capabilities
your service can use as well.
For example,
you can request playback interval
reports as content is playing,
to know that a certain
point has been reached,
or each time a particular
repeating interval has elapsed.
You can enable and receive reporting of
certain MP Remote Command Center commands
when iOS devices control
playback on the HomePod.
Note that the remote commands for like
track and dislike track are not the same
as update media affinity intent handling.
They are not voice intents,
but simple taps from an iOS
device anywhere in the house.
While I discussed returning
new queues previously,
you can also update user activity
objects during playback by returning
an updated version of the object.
Here is an example we saw earlier
of custom control schemes which
include activity definitions.
The default control includes a play
elapsed interval of 60 seconds,
which means that a report is generated
every 60 seconds as content items that
have no control attribute are played.
But for items with a
control attribute of add,
as soon as 5 seconds of
the content have elapsed,
a report is generated,
and then another report is
generated every 10 seconds.
There are several limits on reporting
intervals defined in the specification.
Reporting provides your
service a lot of data,
but tracking that context in your
service may be expensive as millions
of listeners process intents.
A session context can be provided to your
service to help bridge the queue playback
and intent handling endpoints context.
The session context is only
available if the HomePod is currently
playing media from your service.
When I tell Siri I like a
particular piece of content,
your intent service endpoint
receives a player context object,
much like how the "now playing"
object discussed in the reporting
section is sent on every report.
Player context includes content, queue,
and user activity persistent
identifier values.
These encompass three levels of
definition I have introduced previously:
the activity persistent identifier,
which defines a potentially
long-lived listening session,
the queue, which defines the current
listener's experience,
and the particular content,
which is now playing at the
time of the intent resolution.
This item is also carried in
the intent media search object,
and you may be familiar with
using it on iOS devices already.
Consider whether session context is
enough information for your service
to avoid the need of implementing
the update activity endpoint at all,
and handle more complex reporting events.
In this example request for update
media affinity intent handling,
the HomePod was already playing
a queue from your service so
a player context object is
provided to the intent endpoint.
Inside the session object,
you will find player context,
or a null value if your service
is not currently playing.
If your service's taste profiles
are explicitly driven only by media
affinity and play media requests,
player context may handle all
of your requirements without
implementing full reporting.
But before your service uses taste
profile information from these tools,
it also must honor constraints
on usage sent with every request.
In a home, there is a different kind of
contextual awareness your service
must know about and honor.
Each HomePod can be configured
with certain options that form
constraints on your service.
For example, a HomePod in a child's room
might have an option to exclude
explicit content from results.
Whenever a request is
made on this HomePod,
it should not return explicit content.
But a request to a HomePod in a
bedroom that does not have this
setting enabled should be allowed
to return explicit content.
[Transcript missing]